**448899** : Links are not required to use Obsidian. It all depends on how you chose to take your notes and make them work for you. I have some notes that stand alone, with no links, and some notes that are linked to other notes. The goal is not to build a fabulous Graph - personally, while it's nice to look at, I think the graph has very limited use.

In your example, you could look at it two ways. Yes, each recipe can stand alone. But, if you chose, you could take an ingredient like "Bakers Chocolate" and make it a link to a "Bakers Chocolate" note. From there, it's a simple matter to have the "Bakers Chocolate" note list all the recipes that use that ingredient.

Then, one day you get an urge to make something chocolate. So you go to your "Bakers Chocolate" note, and there is a list of all the recipes you could choose from.

You could make this as complex or as simple as you like. But you probably wouldn't make an ingredient card for butter, or flour, since those are used in so many recipes.

Or, you could also create links and notes for recipes that are "Vegan." But I think I would tend to use tags for food types.

To sum up: There's nothing wrong with keeping your recipes as simple stand-alone notes. But if you want to do more with them, Obsidian gives you the tools.

*Edited to add: It's worth noting that even with standalone recipe notes, you can still get a list of those containing "Bakers Chocolate" by a simple search. No need for any or tags at all. Once again, this is due to the wonderful flexibility of the Obsidian program.*

**Active-Teach6311** : Alternatively one can make a \\#Bakers-Chocolate tag and one click in the tag pane takes you to a list of all the recipes using this ingredient.

**kefir87** : I primarily use Obsidian for journaling, so my notes are naturally linked. My daily notes contain links to previous and next days, my weekly notes have links to previous and next weeks, as well as to all the days within the current week. The same principle applies to my monthly and yearly notes. I hope you get the idea.

Notes unrelated to journaling also typically follow a natural hierarchy and have connections. For instance, I might have a note titled "Programming Languages," essentially a list of links to notes dedicated to each programming language. These notes can reference each other or include links to the same notes and of course have links to some topics related to particular programming language.

In my mind, linking is merely for navigation. I don't expect to gain any deep insights into obscure connections between ideas or anything of that sort. While reading something in my notes, I simply want a quick and convenient way to jump to related notes. That's all.

**Active-Teach6311** : &gt;I simply want a quick and convenient way to jump to related notes. That's all.

Really a good point.

**SaneUse** : From what I've seen, often the links come from index pages or MoCs. Most notes aren't connected to others and trying to forcibly link to things is just bad practice. 


Also note that index pages aren't always necessary and it depends on the topic. Having index pages for everything can defeat the point of having a graph view in the first place as it skews the natural relationships between topics. Where indexes have use is for things like study material or documentation. Places where you would traditionally have indexes even outside of Obsidian. 

**alicehateshumans** : If your index pages are dynamically generated by dataview then they won't appear on the graph. Of course if the index is based on a tag then the links to that tag will appear on the graph, but you can hide tags or filter out the index type tags.

**SaneUse** : Yeah. Sometimes you want the index to appear in the graph view and sometimes you don't. The beauty is that you get to pick and choose. 

**i_hate_svn** : My vault has a little over 300,000 entries. These entries reside in one folder. I’ve always used links as a forerunner to Maps of Content (MoCs). It wasn’t until I had about 1000 notes when the links started to become useful. 

Links are “a” means of implying relationships/organization. To others, folders, meta, tagging are that means. In the end, it’s ultimately up to you how you want to organize stuff. Links are one way out of many. 

Everyone uses obsidian differently and their type of content often dictates these attributes of organization.

**fr4u-koujiro** : How do you end up with 300k entries?

**Kompost88** : I'm genuinely interested, how you got to this massive number of notes. It would take me several lifetimes to get there.

**SecularShepherdess** : Not the original commenter, I have 2500+ notes. 

I got there because...

* a lot of my writing ideas are individual notes
* a large(ish) bank of quotations because I use them for inspiration
* daily and weekly notes add up quickly
* individual notes for classes and webinars also add up quickly
* Readwise highlighting and commenting also offers a huge chunk of them

**i_hate_svn** : Undergrad/Grad and then another 10 years of note taking across the STEM fields. Some notes are imported from before Obsidian existed. 

I use bookmarklets for pulling articles into Obsidian then create notes off those notes. My friends and I often share notes with each other. 

Some of my notes are automatically created by extracting source code of software I’ve developed on my own or little things here and there.

There’s an assortment of other various methods I use. They are nothing special, hundreds if not thousands of other users do the same. I have a friend that imported the Bible at one point.

Here’s one I use u/Kompost88 that you might like. Interesting enough the CEO of Obsidian created it. https://stephango.com/obsidian-web-clipper

**Kompost88** : Thanks, that's really cool.

**datahoarderprime** : How is the performance with 300K notes?

**i_hate_svn** : I went to 100k and it became sluggish on a dell xps. So I had to archive by creating other vaults. 

Maybe I should have said I have 300k notes spread out over other vaults. It’s kind of a mess honestly.

**anmr** : What became sluggish exactly?

Starting application? Search? General navigation?

And do you any content other than note with Obsidian structure? Images, videos, sounds files, source code and libraries backups, other data? How much space are they using?

I genuinely curious because I'm afraid I'll invest a lot of time into building knowledge base in Obsidian, only for it to become unusable...

**andero** : &gt;for example, if I use notes for kitchen recipes, I don't really seem to need links (each given recipe is independent of the others)  

Would you find it useful to be able to see which recipes have the same ingredients?  

That may or may not be useful for baking, but I could imagine that it could be quite useful for cocktail recipes.  
Someone might say, "I was going to make a [Manhattan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manhattan_\(cocktail\)), but I've run out of sweet vermouth! Let me see what other cocktails are made with "whiskey" and see if I've got the ingredients to make one of those..."  

Granted, with something that commonplace, there are already online tools that can tell you what cocktails you can make with which ingredients or you could ask an LLM-AI. We're talking about going through notes, though; maybe you're on a remote vacation and don't have internet access, but you have your notes.  

You could also have substitutions.  
e.g. "butter" note has a link to substitutes for butter if you want to quickly swap out an ingredient because you're making this thing and you don't have butter or you are making it for someone with different dietary constraints.  

---

In my case, I use notes for (i) a lot of academic things, (ii) a lot of personal notes, and (iii) a lot of design/creative docs.  
Backlinks come naturally. I'm writing content and I end up touching on overlapping topics.  

For example, if I write about being an academic, [a bunch of related stuff comes together](https://www.reddit.com/r/AcademicPsychology/comments/179lls1/what_are_some_of_the_unspoken_rulessocial_norms/k578dgh/). I might write about how important it is to write papers for publication, then I might have another note on "how to write a paper", then I might have another note on "comparing your career progress to others" (which involves counting the numbers of papers you've written).  

In personal notes, I've got notes about life, death, values, etc.  
I've also got poetry about those different things.  
I've also got notes about relationships, and poetry about relationships. If I've got a poem that I wrote about an ex-gf, that can link to the note about that ex-gf because they are related.  
Plus, I've got them all linked up to years, which help form a timeline of my life.  
If I dated someone and wrote a poem in 2012, that's linked together with the other notes about the other things that were going on in my life in 2012.  

For creative stuff, backlinks are great for writing book-like content that cross-references itself.  
e.g. "see Section 4" and I link directly to a note about Section 4, or Appendix B, etc.

**seashoreandhorizon** : Sometimes when I'm writing one note I will think of another note I know I have, so I'll link to it then. 

I also come back and review notes some time after I've written them, to "process" them out of my inbox. At this point I'll add various metadata, including tags, decide what folder they belong in, revise what I've written, and search for possible links and add them in.

One tool that's sometimes useful is the Smart Connections plugin. This plugin uses AI to identify notes which are related to the one you're viewing.

**ZunoJ** : Seems like an outliner would work better for you

**BlubberKroket** : I started out with a personal wiki, back in the days. I had about 2000 notes and used backlinks a lot. It was my way of creating tags. I had a page like LinuxTips, and then only needed to type "LinuxTips" to create a link on any page, and on the LinuxTips page I could display all the backlinks, which created a nice index. No complicated []() type linking. Just one CamelCased word. That was back then. 

About 10 years ago I started using Evernote, and tags was my favorite linking method. I had about 3000 notes. 

I moved over to Obsidian last week, and tags are still my favorite way of finding notes. It didn't take long before I found out that I can bookmark a search, so I can bookmark a #tag search. Tags are the way to go. You just need to have some kind of method to not make it a mess. 

You can create a graph with tags ==&gt;&gt; there you go!

**manutoe** : I often work on large projects with many sub topics. It’s useful to link related content within the project

I also then leverage the local graph view for easy navigation to notes, and to “discover” notes I may have forgotten about

**SikinAyylmao** : I use links similar to the way I write code. It helps with keeping notes terse.

The process mainly involves omitting definitions for thing by including a link. I tend to this often throughout a note and then go back and fill out the definition and perhaps elaborate on more specific ideas.

**Hari___Seldon** : This is a great insight. I do a similar thing and have had a hard time finding a concise way to describe it. Thanks!

**damanamathos** : I tend to use Obsidian when I'm learning things, and I try to write pages that are as atomic/simple as possible.

For example, let's say I'm researching a new company, BlackSky Technology (they do observation of earth from space) and let's assume space was completely new to me. If I was writing this in a Word document, I'd probably include an explanation of what **low earth orbit** is, since that's important for understanding small satellite constellations.

In Obsidian, I'm just more likely to think that **low earth orbit** is a new concept so I'll just create a new page for it, write some notes, and link to it from my BlackSky Technology page in a phrase like "Own and operate **low earth orbit** small satellite constellations."

The benefit of this, for me, is that it keeps the page on BlackSky Technology much tighter as I don't need to re-read the low earth orbit explanation... but if I come back to it in 2 years and have forgotten what that means, I can just click it to see my past notes. 

(I'd have related pages on **Earth Observation** that have my thoughts on whether any company can have a sustainable edge or whether it's a commodity service, as well as pages on competitors like **Planet Labs**, etc. Previously they'd all be in one long Word document.)

**Mishkun** : This is because everyone showing the graph to you is trying to brag about their note vaults. In fact, the 80% of their notes are map of content notes, notes describing apples that are linked to "fruites" notes. They are just link hoarders.

Your PKMS is all about you and the goals you want to achieve. Your workflow should answer questions you want to be answered and help you achieve your goals. It shouldn't be designed to maximize link count or notes count. 

If your vault has no links but does its job in providing you with the means of storing and retrieving information you care about – you do everything right

**dethb0y** : just depends what i'm doing. Some things are naturally "of a kind" and are naturally linked. Other things aren't really connected in an obvious way, or are connected in *such* an obvious way that a link is superfluous.

**Active-Teach6311** : Much of the over use of links comes from Obsidian's promotion of links and the graph as a center piece of notes organization (how many time you see a post with just a graph without any words just to showcase the OP's masterpiece?) and a dogmatic misreading of Niklas Luhmann’s zettelkasten system.

Luhmann rightly emphasized that a note can be best understood in its connection with other notes. He wrote down links to other notes on the index card. However, if you put several notes in the same folder or give a common tag to several notes, you have already established connections without using direct links.

In fact, Luhmann’s zettelkasten is primarily a hierarchical system with his elaborated numbering system, which results in a structure much like subfolders. For 67000 notes, he also used 3200 tags (keywords). He only made 25000-30000 links for the same 67000 notes, fewer than if one relied primarily on links.

But Luhmann's system is a system for an academic discipline based on massive reading and note taking and his intention to build a grand theory of sociology. Most people's needs today are different (even researchers, where topics are more narrowly defined and there is less appetite for grand theories). Links are most useful for exploring new ideas, but powerless for organizing and retrieving. If one's note system is primarily for storing and retrieving information, like recipes, there is no need for links and folders/tags are more than enough. Rather, links are for specific references and one can make a specific link like "when I'm on this recipe, remind me of \[\[another dish\]\] or \[\[wine\]\] that accompanies this one well."

People debate endlessly tags. vs links, but we have been using them together forever. Open any academic journal/book, for each article, you will see a list of keywords on the front page--these are your tags. Inside the article, you will find some references to other articles--these are your links. Use them naturally.

**sentence-interruptio** : Every time I write a section in a note A and feel like "hold on. this section also belongs to that other note about B.", that section will become a separate note C. So A and B will link to C. Links are just how I solve the "hmmm this section belongs to two notes." problem.

Another situation when I create links is when I collect comparisons of apps that I'm trying. So for example, let's say I'm researching note taking apps X, Y, Z, and so on and so on. And I copy a quote from a review, "X is faster than Y but Y is more customizable in that ..." I think the quote belongs to a note about X and a note about Y at the same time. I just copy this quote to some comparison section in "note taking apps" note, and then I change it to "\[\[X\]\] is faster than \[\[Y\]\] but Y is more customizable in that ... ". I do this so that when I open the X note, the backlinks pane will show that quote and also other quotes like "\[\[X\]\] is a successor to \[\[Z\]\]." and "\[\[X\]\] is like \[\[W\]\] and \[\[V\]\] in one app." and so on an so on. I think of the backlinks pane as part of the note.

**president_josh** : Perhaps our use cases might help dictate our workflow. If I'm certain that a piece of information may never be used by another note, perhaps there's no need to create a link. And if that information in the future ever became relevant in other notes, you could always create links as needed.

&amp;#x200B;

*-- Scenario: One Topic used in multiple places*

Imagine a vault where different types of notes talk about **MILK** in different ways. Milk could be mentioned in notes about:

* breakfast, cake recipes, shopping list, thoughts about a book or even a poem you write.

If \[\[Milk\]\] exists as a unique entity (note or paragraph, etc), any other note can reference that note eliminating the need to keep defining **milk** every time we want to talk about it. Workflowy discusses that concept.

AI models understand relationships. They probably know that MILK is more likely related to BREAKFAST than it is to a POEM.  However, in real life and in our minds, concepts may be related to lots of other concepts such as the Milky Way.  Here is an excerpt from a Space.com article about our galaxy

* "In Greek mythology, this **milky** band appeared because the goddess Hera sprayed **milk** across the sky."

If you included that sentence in an Astronomy article, you might get the idea to discuss some properties of **MILK**. If a unique note named Milk existed, sections in it might talk about things such as

* The essence of milk
* Uses for milk
* Milk **Recipes**

Your Astronomy article could link to one of those headings, such as "The essence of milk" to add additional color to an article about Astronomy.   This would be an example of the vault providing inspiration just like a Google Search results page when it suggests things you might be interested in besides you search queries.

\-- Split the Milk

In that example, if the \[\[Milk\]\] Note was itself split into smaller notes, such as \[The Essence of Milk\], your Astronomy article could link directly to \[\[The Essence of Milk\] without worrying about all the other information about milk that might appear if all Milk information existed in one giant \[\[Milk\]\] note.  Recipe articles might even have links to sections of a \[\[MILK\]\] note that talked about food-related issues. We can see this type of atomic topic splitting in Wikipedia articles where we can often hover over a link to see information in it.

Regarding to getting an idea to talk about **"the essence of milk"** in an Astronomy paper. This might be an instance where a filtered Global graph or Excalibrain graph might come in handy. You could quickly see that \[\[Milk\]\] was split into smaller topics such as "The Essence of Milk," "Milk Recipes," "Tips for Shopping for Milk."  Looking at that while thinking about your **Astronomy** article, "\[\[The Essence of Milk\]\] might pop into your mind as an interesting fact to add to your article.

Backlinks displays could also help with this type of discovery.

Discussions exist about when to split notes and how. So it seems to be more of an art than science since user cases and other factors may influence the way users split information.

Summary - I don't consider a graph when I add information to Obsidian. But I do link information as needed. We don't have to immediately create a link or split a note. If later you discover that splitting a topic might be beneficial, you can always do that. Some project are extremely decomposed into atomic units. But others are not so even for one person, use case can vary.

&amp;#x200B;

\-- *Workflowy information splitting*

The Workflowy creators seemed excited about the ability to make one piece of information appear in multiple places like it can in apps like Logseq and Obsidian if we split information into small units. Workflowy calls it "**Mirroring**" which is the same as Obsidian Transclusion

[https://workflowy.com/feature/mirrors/](https://workflowy.com/feature/mirrors/)

&gt;Excerpt from Workflowy:  "Tackle large projects by mirroring **smaller tasks** into todo or today bullets. Mirrors let you keep all the important details about that project together in one place and **let you pull out smaller chunks of work** without having to move things around or worrying about missing items when you copy-paste."

Videos on that page show use cases of how they actually benefit from making small bits of information, such as project information, appear (via mirroring/transclusion) in multiple places without using copy-paste.

**Phosquitos** : I barely use links between notes, because I feel more confortable having a good folder structure that I know quite well. But sometimes I use it, when I feel that something can take time to find.

**Ravelte** : Some of the stuff that shows up on those graphs can be tags rather than links between notes (if you have that enabled, I think it's an optional setting?), and that can create a lot of extra lines/connections on the graph. How many tags anyone uses is up to them, but I sure use them liberally.

As for actually interconnecting notes, well, I don't do that for recipes, but I do that for the worldbuilding "wikis" I keep in Obsidian for the novel I writes and the D&amp;D campagins I run. Like, a note collecting info on a character is likely to include links to the notes about the places, big events, etc the character's connected to, this sort of things.

I also keep book reviews/notes in Obsidian, and I sometimes link a few together, if one of my reviews alludes to another book from the same series/author/genre.

Also, I keep a sort of a shorthand journal via Daily Notes where I like to record whatever I've been working on, accomplishments for the day, and the like. And if it's something that I have a note on, whether it's a new worldbuilding detail, a book I've been reading, or a work engagement, I link it. This way, when I look through my notes later, I can easily click on a link and get extra refreshment on what I was busy with that day.

I don't know if it's worth noting, but I never really use that big graph, though. I use links simply by traveling through them from note to note as I need to. Like when you're exploring a wiki.

**poetic_dwarf** : [You are not alone](https://www.reddit.com/r/ObsidianMD/s/JeP7UYAGS)

**baynezy** : So I have two vaults one for life and one for work. My work vault is hyper connected. I'm a self employed IT Consultant and I use Obsidian to take notes for meetings and other related things.

I have templates that I use to create meeting notes that have base tags and I also have a document for each person I work with. I link to their page in the attendees section of a meeting as well as tags about who the client is and the project, etc.

This creates a nice linking system. I also use DataView on the person page to list all the meetings I have had with this person. It's very useful when you are in a meeting with someone you rarely engage with and you can quickly see that you were in a meeting with them six months ago about project x.

For my personal stuff I have clusters of linked notes. I do have recipes, and I tag them with the ingredients and the style of food they are so they are easier to find and you can browse them in different ways.

I hope that gives some insight. Having a pretty graph shouldn't be your goal, organising things in a way that helps you should be.

**No-Reputation-2900** : I'd tag them all as recipes so that the graph then has a block for just that.

**CRATEBOYZ** : I really overdid the links at the start. So much so that I ended up going back and unlinking some pages. I don't feel comfortable is a page is linked to NOTHING, so I try to keep things organized.

This might just be a thing where you find your own balance. If you don't think you're doing it enough, you should create more links.

**jalom12** : I don't have a super large graph (I only have about 400 notes right now) but I create links in two main ways.

1. I journal and link the diffuse thoughts I have to the days that I think them.
2. I have structured thinking sessions every week where I reflect on the ideas I've had over the last week and find other ideas that are related to connect them together.

The former is just effectively a journal where the entries are slip cards. So those connections really just connect ideas in time.

The latter I use to connect ideas thematically and in a useful manner. Sometimes I don't notice how I'm really feeling or what foods I really like until I look around at my notes and see the overall patterns emerge.

**OldSkoolVFX** : I do mine with tags instead of explicit links.  I find it too much work and too time consuming to create links unless I explicitly need them for a particular note.  I guess I'm lazy.  Tags however, I find easy.  I just make sure to show tags in my graph view when I use it.  I make dynamic Index MOCs using Dataview filtering specific tags or sets of tags.  So far this has worked for me.

**DissidentHippie** : depends on the notes and the nature of the links. as others have pointed out, some links are just for quick navigation.

the other basic type of link is where ideas and concepts intersect and relate to each other. which i assume is the type of link that you're thinking about. 

for the second type of link, the reason some people have more links and others have fewer is due to (IMO) a fundamentally different approach to knowledge. which is that, no two pieces of information exist in a vacuum. every bit of information must be connected to another piece of information for it to become knowledge. no two ideas are inherently disconnected, everything has a pathway to be connected to everything else. for instance, my notes on theology are connected to my notes on accounting by way of economics, sociology, and anthropology. 

information connected to information becomes knowledge. knowledge connected to knowledge becomes understanding and wisdom.

that being said, the usefulness of any zettelkasten is very much dependent on the quality of the connections being made. so don't link stuff just to link it. 

also, my pizza recipe is linked to my dough recipe and my marinara sauce recipe ;)

**Espumma** : [this is my graph after 2 years of use](https://imgur.com/a/vKNr9rJ). I use folders for my structure but they don't show up here.


Linked notes are useful in some places but linking all your notes is not necessary at all. It just makes pretty pictures, and those are shared more easily than my cool folder structure.

